Ham Radio Extra Class Question Pool
Section E2 - 60 Questions
============================================================

E2A01
Q: What is the direction of an ascending pass for an amateur satellite?
A: (C) From south to north

E2A02
Q: Which of the following is characteristic of an inverting linear transponder?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E2A03
Q: How is an upload signal processed by an inverting linear transponder?
A: (D) The signal is mixed with a local oscillator signal and the difference product is transmitted

E2A04
Q: What is meant by the “mode” of an amateur radio satellite?
A: (B) The satellite’s uplink and downlink frequency bands

E2A05
Q: What do the letters in a satellite’s mode designator specify?
A: (D) The uplink and downlink frequency ranges

E2A06
Q: What are Keplerian elements?
A: (A) Parameters that define the orbit of a satellite

E2A07
Q: Which of the following types of signals can be relayed through a linear transponder?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E2A08
Q: Why should effective radiated power (ERP) be limited to a satellite that uses a linear transponder?
A: (B) To avoid reducing the downlink power to all other users

E2A09
Q: What do the terms “L band” and “S band” specify?
A: (A) The 23- and 13-centimeter bands

E2A10
Q: What type of satellite appears to stay in one position in the sky?
A: (B) Geostationary

E2A11
Q: What type of antenna can be used to minimize the effects of spin modulation and Faraday rotation?
A: (B) A circularly polarized antenna

E2A12
Q: What is the purpose of digital store-and-forward functions on an amateur radio satellite?
A: (C) To hold digital messages in the satellite for later download

E2B01
Q: In digital television, what does a coding rate of 3/4 mean?
A: (A) 25% of the data sent is forward error correction data

E2B02
Q: How many horizontal lines make up a fast-scan (NTSC) television frame?
A: (C) 525

E2B03
Q: How is an interlaced scanning pattern generated in a fast-scan (NTSC) television system?
A: (D) By scanning odd-numbered lines in one field and even-numbered lines in the next

E2B04
Q: How is color information sent in analog SSTV?
A: (A) Color lines are sent sequentially

E2B05
Q: Which of the following describes the use of vestigial sideband in analog fast-scan TV transmissions?
A: (C) Vestigial sideband reduces the bandwidth while increasing the fidelity of low frequency video components

E2B06
Q: What is vestigial sideband modulation?
A: (A) Amplitude modulation in which one complete sideband and a portion of the other are transmitted

E2B07
Q: Which types of modulation are used for amateur television DVB-T signals?
A: (B) QAM and QPSK

E2B08
Q: What technique allows commercial analog TV receivers to be used for fast-scan TV operations on the 70-centimeter band?
A: (A) Transmitting on channels shared with cable TV

E2B09
Q: What kind of receiver can be used to receive and decode SSTV using the Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) protocol?
A: (D) SSB

E2B10
Q: What aspect of an analog slow-scan television signal encodes the brightness of the picture?
A: (A) Tone frequency

E2B11
Q: What is the function of the vertical interval signaling (VIS) code sent as part of an SSTV transmission?
A: (B) To identify the SSTV mode being used

E2B12
Q: What signals SSTV receiving software to begin a new picture line?
A: (A) Specific tone frequencies

E2C01
Q: What indicator is required to be used by US-licensed operators when operating a station via remote control and the remote transmitter is located in the US?
A: (D) No additional indicator is required

E2C02
Q: Which of the following file formats is used for exchanging amateur radio log data?
A: (C) ADIF

E2C03
Q: From which of the following bands is amateur radio contesting generally excluded?
A: (A) 30 meters

E2C04
Q: Which of the following frequencies can be used for amateur radio mesh networks?
A: (B) Frequencies shared with various unlicensed wireless data services

E2C05
Q: What is the function of a DX QSL Manager?
A: (B) Handle the receiving and sending of confirmations for a DX station

E2C06
Q: During a VHF/UHF contest, in which band segment would you expect to find the highest level of SSB or CW activity?
A: (C) In the weak signal segment of the band, with most of the activity near the calling frequency

E2C07
Q: What is the Cabrillo format?
A: (A) A standard for submission of electronic contest logs

E2C08
Q: Which of the following contacts may be confirmed through the Logbook of The World (LoTW)?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E2C09
Q: What type of equipment is commonly used to implement an amateur radio mesh network?
A: (C) A wireless router running custom firmware

E2C10
Q: Why do DX stations often transmit and receive on different frequencies?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E2C11
Q: How should you generally identify your station when attempting to contact a DX station during a contest or in a pileup?
A: (A) Send your full call sign once or twice

E2C12
Q: What indicates the delay between a control operator action and the corresponding change in the transmitted signal?
A: (C) Latency

E2D01
Q: Which of the following digital modes is designed for meteor scatter communications?
A: (B) MSK144

E2D02
Q: What information replaces signal-to-noise ratio when using the FT8 or FT4 modes in a VHF contest?
A: (D) Grid square

E2D03
Q: Which of the following digital modes is designed for EME communications?
A: (D) Q65

E2D04
Q: What technology is used for real-time tracking of balloons carrying amateur radio transmitters?
A: (C) APRS

E2D05
Q: What is the characteristic of the JT65 mode?
A: (B) Decodes signals with a very low signal-to-noise ratio

E2D06
Q: Which of the following is a method for establishing EME contacts?
A: (A) Time-synchronous transmissions alternating between stations

E2D07
Q: What digital protocol is used by APRS?
A: (C) AX.25

E2D08
Q: What type of packet frame is used to transmit APRS beacon data?
A: (C) Unnumbered Information

E2D09
Q: What type of modulation is used by JT65?
A: (A) Multitone AFSK

E2D10
Q: What does the packet path WIDE3-1 designate?
A: (C) Three digipeater hops are requested with one remaining

E2D11
Q: How do APRS stations relay data?
A: (D) By packet digipeaters

E2E01
Q: Which of the following types of modulation is used for data emissions below 30 MHz?
A: (B) FSK

E2E02
Q: Which of the following synchronizes WSJT-X digital mode transmit/receive timing?
A: (B) Synchronization of computer clocks

E2E03
Q: To what does the "4" in FT4 refer?
A: (B) Four-tone continuous-phase frequency shift keying

E2E04
Q: Which of the following is characteristic of the FST4 mode?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E2E05
Q: Which of these digital modes does not support keyboard-to-keyboard operation?
A: (A) WSPR

E2E06
Q: What is the length of an FT8 transmission cycle?
A: (C) 15 seconds

E2E07
Q: How does Q65 differ from JT65?
A: (C) Multiple receive cycles are averaged

E2E08
Q: Which of the following HF digital modes can be used to transfer binary files?
A: (B) PACTOR

E2E09
Q: Which of the following HF digital modes uses variable-length character coding?
A: (D) PSK31

E2E10
Q: Which of these digital modes has the narrowest bandwidth?
A: (C) FT8

E2E11
Q: What is the difference between direct FSK and audio FSK?
A: (A) Direct FSK modulates the transmitter VFO

E2E12
Q: How do ALE stations establish contact?
A: (A) ALE constantly scans a list of frequencies, activating the radio when the designated call sign is received

E2E13
Q: Which of these digital modes has the highest data throughput under clear communication conditions?
A: (D) PACTOR IV

