Ham Radio Extra Class Question Pool
Section E4 - 63 Questions
============================================================

E4A01
Q: Which of the following limits the highest frequency signal that can be accurately displayed on a digital oscilloscope?
A: (A) Sampling rate of the analog-to-digital converter

E4A02
Q: Which of the following parameters does a spectrum analyzer display on the vertical and horizontal axes?
A: (B) Signal amplitude and frequency

E4A03
Q: Which of the following test instruments is used to display spurious signals and/or intermodulation distortion products generated by an SSB transmitter?
A: (B) Spectrum analyzer

E4A04
Q: How is compensation of an oscilloscope probe performed?
A: (A) A square wave is displayed, and the probe is adjusted until the horizontal portions of the displayed wave are as nearly flat as possible

E4A05
Q: What is the purpose of using a prescaler with a frequency counter?
A: (D) Reduce the signal frequency to within the counter's operating range

E4A06
Q: What is the effect of aliasing on a digital oscilloscope when displaying a waveform?
A: (A) A false, jittery low-frequency version of the waveform is displayed

E4A07
Q: Which of the following is an advantage of using an antenna analyzer compared to an SWR bridge?
A: (B) Antenna analyzers compute SWR and impedance automatically

E4A08
Q: Which of the following is used to measure SWR?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E4A09
Q: Which of the following is good practice when using an oscilloscope probe?
A: (A) Minimize the length of the probe's ground connection

E4A10
Q: Which trigger mode is most effective when using an oscilloscope to measure a linear power supply’s output ripple?
A: (D) Line

E4A11
Q: Which of the following can be measured with an antenna analyzer?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E4B01
Q: Which of the following factors most affects the accuracy of a frequency counter?
A: (B) Time base accuracy

E4B02
Q: What is the significance of voltmeter sensitivity expressed in ohms per volt?
A: (A) The full scale reading of the voltmeter multiplied by its ohms per volt rating is the input impedance of the voltmeter

E4B03
Q: Which S parameter is equivalent to forward gain?
A: (C) S21

E4B04
Q: Which S parameter represents input port return loss or reflection coefficient (equivalent to VSWR)?
A: (A) S11

E4B05
Q: What three test loads are used to calibrate an RF vector network analyzer?
A: (B) Short circuit, open circuit, and 50 ohms

E4B06
Q: How much power is being absorbed by the load when a directional power meter connected between a transmitter and a terminating load reads 100 watts forward power and 25 watts reflected power?
A: (D) 75 watts

E4B07
Q: What do the subscripts of S parameters represent?
A: (A) The port or ports at which measurements are made

E4B08
Q: Which of the following can be used to determine the Q of a series-tuned circuit?
A: (C) The bandwidth of the circuit's frequency response

E4B09
Q: Which of the following can be measured by a two-port vector network analyzer?
A: (B) Filter frequency response

E4B10
Q: Which of the following methods measures intermodulation distortion in an SSB transmitter?
A: (B) Modulate the transmitter using two AF signals having non-harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a spectrum analyzer

E4B11
Q: Which of the following can be measured with a vector network analyzer?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E4C01
Q: What is an effect of excessive phase noise in an SDR receiver’s master clock oscillator?
A: (D) It can combine with strong signals on nearby frequencies to generate interference

E4C02
Q: Which of the following receiver circuits can be effective in eliminating interference from strong out-of-band signals?
A: (A) A front-end filter or preselector

E4C03
Q: What is the term for the suppression in an FM receiver of one signal by another stronger signal on the same frequency?
A: (C) Capture effect

E4C04
Q: What is the noise figure of a receiver?
A: (D) The ratio in dB of the noise generated by the receiver to the theoretical minimum noise

E4C05
Q: What does a receiver noise floor of -174 dBm represent?
A: (B) The theoretical noise in a 1 Hz bandwidth at the input of a perfect receiver at room temperature

E4C06
Q: How much does increasing a receiver’s bandwidth from 50 Hz to 1,000 Hz increase the receiver’s noise floor?
A: (D) 13 dB

E4C07
Q: What does the MDS of a receiver represent?
A: (B) The minimum discernible signal

E4C08
Q: An SDR receiver is overloaded when input signals exceed what level?
A: (D) The reference voltage of the analog-to-digital converter

E4C09
Q: Which of the following choices is a good reason for selecting a high IF for a superheterodyne HF or VHF communications receiver?
A: (C) Easier for front-end circuitry to eliminate image responses

E4C10
Q: What is an advantage of having a variety of receiver bandwidths from which to select?
A: (C) Receive bandwidth can be set to match the modulation bandwidth, maximizing signal-to-noise ratio and minimizing interference

E4C11
Q: Why does input attenuation reduce receiver overload on the lower frequency HF bands with little or no impact on signal-to-noise ratio?
A: (D) Atmospheric noise is generally greater than internally generated noise even after attenuation

E4C12
Q: How does a narrow-band roofing filter affect receiver performance?
A: (C) It improves blocking dynamic range by attenuating strong signals near the receive frequency

E4C13
Q: What is reciprocal mixing?
A: (D) Local oscillator phase noise mixing with adjacent strong signals to create interference to desired signals

E4C14
Q: What is the purpose of the receiver IF Shift control?
A: (C) To reduce interference from stations transmitting on adjacent frequencies

E4D01
Q: What is meant by the blocking dynamic range of a receiver?
A: (A) The difference in dB between the noise floor and the level of an incoming signal that will cause 1 dB of gain compression

E4D02
Q: Which of the following describes problems caused by poor dynamic range in a receiver?
A: (A) Spurious signals caused by cross modulation and desensitization from strong adjacent signals

E4D03
Q: What creates intermodulation interference between two repeaters in close proximity?
A: (B) The output signals mix in the final amplifier of one or both transmitters

E4D04
Q: Which of the following is used to reduce or eliminate intermodulation interference in a repeater caused by a nearby transmitter?
A: (B) A properly terminated circulator at the output of the repeater’s transmitter

E4D06
Q: What is the term for the reduction in receiver sensitivity caused by a strong signal near the received frequency?
A: (C) Desensitization

E4D07
Q: Which of the following reduces the likelihood of receiver desensitization?
A: (A) Insert attenuation before the first RF stage

E4D08
Q: What causes intermodulation in an electronic circuit?
A: (C) Nonlinear circuits or devices

E4D09
Q: What is the purpose of the preselector in a communications receiver?
A: (C) To increase the rejection of signals outside the band being received

E4D10
Q: What does a third-order intercept level of 40 dBm mean with respect to receiver performance?
A: (C) A pair of 40 dBm input signals will theoretically generate a third-order intermodulation product that has the same output amplitude as either of the input signals

E4D11
Q: Why are odd-order intermodulation products, created within a receiver, of particular interest compared to other products?
A: (A) Odd-order products of two signals in the band being received are also likely to be within the band

E4D12
Q: What is the link margin in a system with a transmit power level of 10 W (+40 dBm), a system antenna gain of 10 dBi, a cable loss of 3 dB, a path loss of 136 dB, a receiver minimum discernable signal of -103 dBm, and a required signal-to-noise ratio of 6 dB?
A: (C) +8dB

E4D13
Q: What is the received signal level with a transmit power of 10 W (+40 dBm), a transmit antenna gain of 6 dBi, a receive antenna gain of 3 dBi, and a path loss of 100 dB?
A: (A) -51 dBm

E4D14
Q: What power level does a receiver minimum discernible signal of -100 dBm represent?
A: (D) 0.1 picowatts

E4E01
Q: What problem can occur when using an automatic notch filter (ANF) to remove interfering carriers while receiving CW signals?
A: (A) Removal of the CW signal as well as the interfering carrier

E4E02
Q: Which of the following types of noise can often be reduced by a digital noise reduction?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E4E03
Q: Which of the following types of noise are removed by a noise blanker?
A: (B) Impulse noise

E4E04
Q: How can conducted noise from an automobile battery charging system be suppressed?
A: (D) By installing ferrite chokes on the charging system leads

E4E05
Q: What is used to suppress radio frequency interference from a line-driven AC motor?
A: (B) A brute-force AC-line filter in series with the motor’s power leads

E4E06
Q: What type of electrical interference can be caused by computer network equipment?
A: (C) The appearance of unstable modulated or unmodulated signals at specific frequencies

E4E07
Q: Which of the following can cause shielded cables to radiate or receive interference?
A: (B) Common-mode currents on the shield and conductors

E4E08
Q: What current flows equally on all conductors of an unshielded multiconductor cable?
A: (B) Common-mode current

E4E09
Q: What undesirable effect can occur when using a noise blanker?
A: (C) Strong signals may be distorted and appear to cause spurious emissions

E4E10
Q: Which of the following can create intermittent loud roaring or buzzing AC line interference?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E4E11
Q: What could be the cause of local AM broadcast band signals combining to generate spurious signals on the MF or HF bands?
A: (B) Nearby corroded metal connections are mixing and reradiating the broadcast signals

E4E12
Q: What causes interference received as a series of carriers at regular intervals across a wide frequency range?
A: (A) Switch-mode power supplies

E4E13
Q: Where should a station AC surge protector be installed?
A: (C) On the single point ground panel

E4E14
Q: What is the purpose of a single point ground panel?
A: (D) Ensure all lightning protectors activate at the same time

