Ham Radio Extra Class Question Pool
Section E8 - 48 Questions
============================================================

E8A01
Q: What technique shows that a square wave is made up of a sine wave and its odd harmonics?
A: (A) Fourier analysis

E8A02
Q: Which of the following is a type of analog-to-digital conversion?
A: (A) Successive approximation

E8A03
Q: Which of the following describes a signal in the time domain?
A: (B) Amplitude at different times

E8A04
Q: What is “dither” with respect to analog-to-digital converters?
A: (B) A small amount of noise added to the input signal to reduce quantization noise

E8A05
Q: What is the benefit of making voltage measurements with a true-RMS calculating meter?
A: (D) RMS is measured for both sinusoidal and non-sinusoidal signals

E8A06
Q: What is the approximate ratio of PEP-to-average power in an unprocessed single-sideband phone signal?
A: (A) 2.5 to 1

E8A07
Q: What determines the PEP-to-average power ratio of an unprocessed single-sideband phone signal?
A: (B) Speech characteristics

E8A08
Q: Why are direct or flash conversion analog-to-digital converters used for a software defined radio?
A: (C) Very high speed allows digitizing high frequencies

E8A09
Q: How many different input levels can be encoded by an analog-to-digital converter with 8-bit resolution?
A: (D) 256

E8A10
Q: What is the purpose of a low-pass filter used at the output of a digital-to-analog converter?
A: (C) Remove spurious sampling artifacts from the output signal

E8A11
Q: Which of the following is a measure of the quality of an analog-to-digital converter?
A: (A) Total harmonic distortion

E8B01
Q: What is the modulation index of an FM signal?
A: (A) The ratio of frequency deviation to modulating signal frequency

E8B02
Q: How does the modulation index of a phase-modulated emission vary with RF carrier frequency?
A: (D) It does not depend on the RF carrier frequency

E8B03
Q: What is the modulation index of an FM phone signal having a maximum frequency deviation of 3000 Hz either side of the carrier frequency if the highest modulating frequency is 1000 Hz?
A: (A) 3

E8B04
Q: What is the modulation index of an FM phone signal having a maximum carrier deviation of plus or minus 6 kHz if the highest modulating frequency  is 2 kHz?
A: (B) 3

E8B05
Q: What is the deviation ratio of an FM phone signal having a maximum frequency swing of plus or minus 5 kHz if the highest modulation frequency is 3 kHz?
A: (D) 1.67

E8B06
Q: What is the deviation ratio of an FM phone signal having a maximum frequency swing of plus or minus 7.5 kHz if the highest modulation frequency is 3.5 kHz?
A: (A) 2.14

E8B07
Q: Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a technique used for which types of amateur communication?
A: (A) Digital modes

E8B08
Q: What describes orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM)?
A: (D) A digital modulation technique using subcarriers at frequencies chosen to avoid intersymbol interference

E8B09
Q: What is deviation ratio?
A: (B) The ratio of the maximum carrier frequency deviation to the highest audio modulating frequency

E8B10
Q: What is frequency division multiplexing (FDM)?
A: (B) Dividing the transmitted signal into separate frequency bands that each carry a different data stream

E8B11
Q: What is digital time division multiplexing?
A: (B) Two or more signals are arranged to share discrete time slots of a data transmission

E8C01
Q: What is Quadrature Amplitude Modulation or QAM?
A: (B) Transmission of data by modulating the amplitude of two carriers of the same frequency but 90 degrees out of phase

E8C02
Q: What is the definition of symbol rate in a digital transmission?
A: (C) The rate at which the waveform changes to convey information

E8C03
Q: Why should the phase of a PSK signal be changed at the zero crossing of the RF signal?
A: (A) To minimize bandwidth

E8C04
Q: What technique minimizes the bandwidth of a PSK31 signal?
A: (C) Use of sinusoidal data pulses

E8C05
Q: What is the approximate bandwidth of a 13-WPM International Morse Code transmission?
A: (C) 52 Hz

E8C06
Q: What is the bandwidth of an FT8 signal?
A: (B) 50 Hz

E8C07
Q: What is the bandwidth of a 4,800-Hz frequency shift, 9,600-baud ASCII FM transmission?
A: (A) 15.36 kHz

E8C08
Q: How does ARQ accomplish error correction?
A: (D) If errors are detected, a retransmission is requested

E8C09
Q: Which digital code allows only one bit to change between sequential code values?
A: (D) Gray code

E8C10
Q: How can data rate be increased without increasing bandwidth?
A: (C) Using a more efficient digital code

E8C11
Q: What is the relationship between symbol rate and baud?
A: (A) They are the same

E8C12
Q: What factors affect the bandwidth of a transmitted CW signal?
A: (C) Keying speed and shape factor (rise and fall time)

E8C13
Q: What is described by the constellation diagram of a QAM or QPSK signal?
A: (B) The possible phase and amplitude states for each symbol

E8C14
Q: What type of addresses do nodes have in a mesh network?
A: (C) Internet Protocol (IP)

E8C15
Q: What technique do individual nodes use to form a mesh network?
A: (C) Discovery and link establishment protocols

E8D01
Q: Why are received spread spectrum signals resistant to interference?
A: (A) Signals not using the spread spectrum algorithm are suppressed in the receiver

E8D02
Q: What spread spectrum communications technique uses a high-speed binary bit stream to shift the phase of an RF carrier?
A: (B) Direct sequence

E8D03
Q: Which describes spread spectrum frequency hopping?
A: (D) Rapidly varying the frequency of a transmitted signal according to a pseudorandom sequence

E8D04
Q: What is the primary effect of extremely short rise or fall time on a CW signal?
A: (C) The generation of key clicks

E8D05
Q: What is the most common method of reducing key clicks?
A: (A) Increase keying waveform rise and fall times

E8D06
Q: What is the advantage of including parity bits in ASCII characters?
A: (D) Some types of errors can be detected

E8D07
Q: What is a common cause of overmodulation of AFSK signals?
A: (D) Excessive transmit audio levels

E8D08
Q: What parameter evaluates distortion of an AFSK signal caused by excessive input audio levels?
A: (D) Intermodulation Distortion (IMD)

E8D09
Q: What is considered an acceptable maximum IMD level for an idling PSK signal?
A: (D) -30 dB

E8D10
Q: What are some of the differences between the Baudot digital code and ASCII?
A: (B) Baudot uses 5 data bits per character, ASCII uses 7 or 8; Baudot uses 2 characters as letters/figures shift codes, ASCII has no letters/figures shift code

E8D11
Q: What is one advantage of using ASCII code for data communications?
A: (C) It is possible to transmit both uppercase and lowercase text

