Ham Radio Extra Class Question Pool
Section E9 - 93 Questions
============================================================

E9A01
Q: What is an isotropic radiator?
A: (C) A hypothetical, lossless antenna having equal radiation intensity in all directions used as a reference for antenna gain

E9A02
Q: What is the effective radiated power (ERP) of a repeater station with 150 watts transmitter power output, 2 dB feed line loss, 2.2 dB duplexer loss, and 7 dBd antenna gain?
A: (D) 286 watts

E9A03
Q: What term describing total radiated power takes into account all gains and losses?
A: (C) Effective radiated power

E9A04
Q: Which of the following factors affect the feed point impedance of an antenna?
A: (B) Antenna height

E9A05
Q: What does the term “ground gain” mean?
A: (D) An increase in signal strength from ground reflections in the environment of the antenna

E9A06
Q: What is the effective radiated power (ERP) of a repeater station with 200 watts transmitter power output, 4 dB feed line loss, 3.2 dB duplexer loss, 0.8 dB circulator loss, and 10 dBd antenna gain?
A: (A) 317 watts

E9A07
Q: What is the effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) of a repeater station with 200 watts transmitter power output, 2 dB feed line loss, 2.8 dB duplexer loss, 1.2 dB circulator loss, and 7 dBi antenna gain?
A: (B) 252 watts

E9A08
Q: Which frequency band has the smallest first Fresnel zone?
A: (A) 5.8 GHz

E9A09
Q: What is antenna efficiency?
A: (B) Radiation resistance divided by total resistance

E9A10
Q: Which of the following improves the efficiency of a ground-mounted quarter-wave vertical antenna?
A: (A) Installing a ground radial system

E9A11
Q: Which of the following determines ground losses for a ground-mounted vertical antenna operating on HF?
A: (C) Soil conductivity

E9A12
Q: How much gain does an antenna have compared to a half-wavelength dipole if it has 6 dB gain over an isotropic radiator?
A: (A) 3.85 dB

E9B01
Q: What is the 3 dB beamwidth of the antenna radiation pattern shown in Figure E9-1?
A: (B) 50 degrees

E9B02
Q: What is the front-to-back ratio of the antenna radiation pattern shown in Figure E9-1?
A: (D) 18 dB

E9B03
Q: What is the front-to-side ratio of the antenna radiation pattern shown in Figure E9-1?
A: (D) 14 dB

E9B04
Q: What is the front-to-back ratio of the radiation pattern shown in Figure E9-2?
A: (B) 28 dB

E9B05
Q: What type of antenna pattern is shown in Figure E9-2?
A: (A) Elevation

E9B06
Q: What is the elevation angle of peak response in the antenna radiation pattern shown in Figure E9-2?
A: (C) 7.5 degrees

E9B07
Q: What is the difference in radiated power between a lossless antenna with gain and an isotropic radiator driven by the same power?
A: (C) They are the same

E9B08
Q: What is the far field of an antenna?
A: (D) The region where the shape of the radiation pattern no longer varies with distance

E9B09
Q: What type of analysis is commonly used for modeling antennas?
A: (B) Method of Moments

E9B10
Q: What is the principle of a Method of Moments analysis?
A: (A) A wire is modeled as a series of segments, each having a uniform value of current

E9B11
Q: What is a disadvantage of decreasing the number of wire segments in an antenna model below 10 segments per half-wavelength?
A: (C) The computed feed point impedance may be incorrect

E9C01
Q: What type of radiation pattern is created by two 1/4-wavelength vertical antennas spaced 1/2-wavelength apart and fed 180 degrees out of phase?
A: (D) A figure-eight oriented along the axis of the array

E9C02
Q: What type of radiation pattern is created by two 1/4-wavelength vertical antennas spaced 1/4-wavelength apart and fed 90 degrees out of phase?
A: (A) Cardioid

E9C03
Q: What type of radiation pattern is created by two 1/4-wavelength vertical antennas spaced 1/2-wavelength apart and fed in phase?
A: (C) A figure-eight broadside to the axis of the array

E9C04
Q: What happens to the radiation pattern of an unterminated long wire antenna as the wire length is increased?
A: (B) Additional lobes form with major lobes increasingly aligned with the axis of the antenna

E9C05
Q: What is the purpose of feeding an off-center-fed dipole (OCFD) between the center and one end instead of at the midpoint?
A: (A) To create a similar feed point impedance on multiple bands

E9C06
Q: What is the effect of adding a terminating resistor to a rhombic or long-wire antenna?
A: (B) It changes the radiation pattern from bidirectional to unidirectional

E9C07
Q: What is the approximate feed point impedance at the center of a two-wire half-wave folded dipole antenna?
A: (A) 300 ohms

E9C08
Q: What is a folded dipole antenna?
A: (C) A half-wave dipole with an additional parallel wire connecting its two ends

E9C09
Q: Which of the following describes a G5RV antenna?
A: (A) A wire antenna center-fed through a specific length of open-wire line connected to a balun and coaxial feed line

E9C10
Q: Which of the following describes a Zepp antenna?
A: (B) An end-fed half-wavelength dipole

E9C11
Q: How is the far-field elevation pattern of a vertically polarized antenna affected by being mounted over seawater versus soil?
A: (D) Radiation at low angles increases

E9C12
Q: Which of the following describes an extended double Zepp antenna?
A: (C) A center-fed 1.25-wavelength dipole antenna

E9C13
Q: How does the radiation pattern of a horizontally polarized antenna vary with increasing height above ground?
A: (B) The takeoff angle of the lowest elevation lobe decreases

E9C14
Q: How does the radiation pattern of a horizontally-polarized antenna mounted above a long slope compare with the same antenna mounted above flat ground?
A: (B) The main lobe takeoff angle decreases in the downhill direction

E9D01
Q: How much does the gain of an ideal parabolic reflector antenna increase when the operating frequency is doubled?
A: (D) 6 dB

E9D02
Q: How can two linearly polarized Yagi antennas be used to produce circular polarization?
A: (C) Arrange two Yagis on the same axis and perpendicular to each other with the driven elements at the same point on the boom and fed 90 degrees out of phase

E9D03
Q: What is the most efficient location for a loading coil on an electrically short whip?
A: (A) Near the center of the vertical radiator

E9D04
Q: Why should antenna loading coils have a high ratio of reactance to resistance?
A: (C) To maximize efficiency

E9D05
Q: Approximately how long is a Yagi’s driven element?
A: (D) 1/2 wavelength

E9D06
Q: What happens to SWR bandwidth when one or more loading coils are used to resonate an electrically short antenna?
A: (B) It is decreased

E9D07
Q: What is an advantage of top loading an electrically short HF vertical antenna?
A: (D) Improved radiation efficiency

E9D08
Q: What happens as the Q of an antenna increases?
A: (B) SWR bandwidth decreases

E9D09
Q: What is the function of a loading coil in an electrically short antenna?
A: (D) To resonate the antenna by cancelling the capacitive reactance

E9D10
Q: How does radiation resistance of a base-fed whip antenna change below its resonant frequency?
A: (B) Radiation resistance decreases

E9D11
Q: Why do most two-element Yagis with normal spacing have a reflector instead of a director?
A: (D) Higher gain

E9D12
Q: What is the purpose of making a Yagi’s parasitic elements either longer or shorter than resonance?
A: (C) Control of phase shift

E9E01
Q: Which matching system for Yagi antennas requires the driven element to be insulated from the boom?
A: (B) Beta or hairpin

E9E02
Q: What antenna matching system matches coaxial cable to an antenna by connecting the shield to the center of the antenna and the conductor a fraction of a wavelength to one side?
A: (A) Gamma match

E9E03
Q: What matching system uses a short length of transmission line connected in parallel with the feed line at or near the feed point?
A: (D) Stub match

E9E04
Q: What is the purpose of the series capacitor in a gamma match?
A: (B) To cancel unwanted inductive reactance

E9E05
Q: What Yagi driven element feed point impedance is required to use a beta or hairpin matching system?
A: (A) Capacitive (driven element electrically shorter than 1/2 wavelength)

E9E06
Q: Which of these transmission line impedances would be suitable for constructing a quarter-wave Q-section for matching a 100-ohm feed point impedance to a 50-ohm transmission line?
A: (C) 75 ohms

E9E07
Q: What parameter describes the interaction of a load and transmission line?
A: (B) Reflection coefficient

E9E08
Q: What is a use for a Wilkinson divider?
A: (C) To divide power equally between two 50-ohm loads while maintaining 50-ohm input impedance

E9E09
Q: Which of the following is used to shunt feed a grounded tower at its base?
A: (C) Gamma match

E9E11
Q: What is the purpose of using multiple driven elements connected through phasing lines?
A: (A) To control the antenna’s radiation pattern

E9F01
Q: What is the velocity factor of a transmission line?
A: (D) The velocity of a wave in the transmission line divided by the velocity of light in a vacuum

E9F02
Q: Which of the following has the biggest effect on the velocity factor of a transmission line?
A: (C) The insulating dielectric material

E9F03
Q: Why is the electrical length of a coaxial cable longer than its physical length?
A: (D) Electromagnetic waves move more slowly in a coaxial cable than in air

E9F04
Q: What impedance does a 1/2-wavelength transmission line present to an RF generator when the line is shorted at the far end?
A: (B) Very low impedance

E9F05
Q: What is microstrip?
A: (D) Precision printed circuit conductors above a ground plane that provide constant impedance interconnects at microwave frequencies

E9F06
Q: What is the approximate physical length of an air-insulated, parallel conductor transmission line that is electrically 1/2 wavelength long at 14.10 MHz?
A: (C) 10.6 meters

E9F07
Q: How does parallel conductor transmission line compare to coaxial cable with a plastic dielectric?
A: (A) Lower loss

E9F08
Q: Which of the following is a significant difference between foam dielectric coaxial cable and solid dielectric coaxial cable, assuming all other parameters are the same?
A: (D) All these choices are correct

E9F09
Q: What impedance does a 1/4-wavelength transmission line present to an RF generator when the line is shorted at the far end?
A: (A) Very high impedance

E9F10
Q: What impedance does a 1/8-wavelength transmission line present to an RF generator when the line is shorted at the far end?
A: (C) An inductive reactance

E9F11
Q: What impedance does a 1/8-wavelength transmission line present to an RF generator when the line is open at the far end?
A: (C) A capacitive reactance

E9F12
Q: What impedance does a 1/4-wavelength transmission line present to an RF generator when the line is open at the far end?
A: (D) Very low impedance

E9G01
Q: Which of the following can be calculated using a Smith chart?
A: (A) Impedance along transmission lines

E9G02
Q: What type of coordinate system is used in a Smith chart?
A: (B) Resistance circles and reactance arcs

E9G03
Q: Which of the following is often determined using a Smith chart?
A: (C) Impedance and SWR values in transmission lines

E9G04
Q: What are the two families of circles and arcs that make up a Smith chart?
A: (C) Resistance and reactance

E9G05
Q: Which of the following is a common use for a Smith chart?
A: (A) Determine the length and position of an impedance matching stub

E9G06
Q: On the Smith chart shown in Figure E9-3, what is the name for the large outer circle on which the reactance arcs terminate?
A: (B) Reactance axis

E9G07
Q: On the Smith chart shown in Figure E9-3, what is the only straight line shown?
A: (D) The resistance axis

E9G08
Q: How is a Smith chart normalized?
A: (C) Reassign the prime center’s impedance value

E9G09
Q: What third family of circles is often added to a Smith chart during the process of designing impedance matching networks?
A: (A) Constant-SWR circles

E9G10
Q: What do the arcs on a Smith chart represent?
A: (D) Points with constant reactance

E9G11
Q: In what units are the wavelength scales on a Smith chart calibrated?
A: (B) In fractions of transmission line electrical wavelength

E9H01
Q: When constructing a Beverage antenna, which of the following factors should be included in the design to achieve good performance at the desired frequency?
A: (D) It should be at least one wavelength long

E9H02
Q: Which is generally true for 160- and 80-meter receiving antennas?
A: (A) Atmospheric noise is so high that directivity is much more important than losses

E9H03
Q: What is receiving directivity factor (RDF)?
A: (D) Peak antenna gain compared to average gain over the hemisphere around and above the antenna

E9H04
Q: What is the purpose of placing an electrostatic shield around a small-loop direction-finding antenna?
A: (B) It eliminates unbalanced capacitive coupling to the antenna’s surroundings, improving the depth of its nulls

E9H05
Q: What challenge is presented by a small wire-loop antenna for direction finding?
A: (A) It has a bidirectional null pattern

E9H06
Q: What indicates the correct value of terminating resistance for a Beverage antenna?
A: (D) Minimum variation in SWR over the desired frequency range

E9H07
Q: What is the function of a Beverage antenna’s termination resistor?
A: (B) Absorb signals from the reverse direction

E9H08
Q: What is the function of a sense antenna?
A: (A) It modifies the pattern of a DF antenna to provide a null in only one direction

E9H09
Q: What type of radiation pattern is created by a single-turn, terminated loop such as a pennant antenna?
A: (A) Cardioid

E9H10
Q: How can the output voltage of a multiple-turn receiving loop antenna be increased?
A: (C) By increasing the number of turns and/or the area enclosed by the loop

E9H11
Q: What feature of a cardioid pattern antenna makes it useful for direction-finding antennas?
A: (B) A single null

